---
title: "V8 engine"
date: "2021-09-23"
---

# V8 engine

refer to [How To Write Fast, Memory-Efficient JavaScript --Addy Osmani](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2012/11/writing-fast-memory-efficient-javascript/)

## core pieces
V8 is made up of a few core pieces:
* base complier
* object model
* runtime profiler
* optimizing compiler
* deoptimization
* garbage collector

## Garbage Collection

Garbage collection is a form of memory management.

### DE-REFERENCING MISCONCEPTIONS #
Avoid using __delete__, as it changes hidden class and makes it a generic slow object.


### FUNCTIONS
garbage collection works by reclaiming blocks of memory (objects) which are no longer reachable. 


Globals object will stick around, unless you refresh, navigate to a diffenet page. Function-scoped variables get cleaned up when a variable falls out of scope. When functions have exited and there aren’t any more references to it, the variable gets cleaned up.

### Closures

When you see a function that returns an inner function, that inner function will have access to the outer scope even after the outer function is executed. This is basically a closure -- an expression which can work with variables set withnin a specific context.

### TIMERS
One of the worst places to leak is in a loop, or in setTimeout()/setInterval(), but this is quite common.

The timer will still fire. myObj won’t be garbage collected as the closure passed to setTimeout has to be kept alive in order to be executed. In turn, it holds references to myObj as it captures myRef. This would be the same if we’d passed the closure to any other function, keeping references to it.

It is also worth keeping in mind that references inside a setTimeout/setInterval call, such as functions, will need to execute and complete before they can be garbage collected.

### Objects vs Arrays
* If you want to store a bunch of numbers, or a list of objects of the same type, use an array.
* If what you semantically need is an object with a bunch of properties (of varying types), use an object with properties. That’s pretty efficient in terms of memory, and it’s also pretty fast.
* Integer-indexed elements, regardless of whether they’re stored in an array or an object, are much faster to iterate over than object properties.
* Properties on objects are quite complex: they can be created with setters, and with differing enumerability and writability. Items in arrays aren’t able to be customized as heavily — they either exist or they don’t. At an engine level, this allows for more optimization in terms of organizing the memory representing the structure. This is particularly beneficial when the array contains numbers. For example, when you need vectors, don’t define a class with properties x, y, z; use an array instead..

There’s really only one major difference between objects and arrays in JavaScript, and that’s the arrays’ magic length property. If you’re keeping track of this property yourself, objects in V8 should be just as fast as arrays.

### TIPS WHEN USING OBJECTS
Create objects using a constructor function. This ensures that all objects created with it have the same hidden class and helps avoid changing these classes.
There are no restrictions on the number of different object types you can use in your application or on their complexity (within reason: long prototype chains tend to hurt, and objects with only a handful of properties get a special representation that’s a bit faster than bigger objects). For “hot” objects, try to keep the prototype chains short and the field count low.